---
title: Insert title here
key: 336760239abd65827cfe69f533978676

---
## Data Manipulation

```yaml
type: "TitleSlide"
key: "24955c0fae"
```

`@lower_third`

name: Juan Carpio
title: Instructor


`@script`



---
## Some potential issues when manipulating data using Excel:

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "351bd38594"
```

`@part1`
- Large datasets in Excel spread sheets can make the software to collapse or become too slow, specially if the file contains numerous formulas. 
   
- The steps that were followed to produced an output cannot be clearly tracked, so it is difficult to find out what is wrong or incomplete. 

- If you want to change the layout of your data table, doing so can be quite cumbersome and time-consuming.

- Consolidating and updating information from different sources frequently involve  manual and


`@script`



---
## How R (or other programming languages) can help

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "b83d22f5b5"
```

`@part1`
` ` 

- R is better equipped to handle large amounts of data, so this is a much more efficient solution to dealing with data that would simply cause Excel to freeze up.

- Complex and repetitive tasks can be automated with a just few lines of code. 
   
- Making your R code available to others makes your work both **reproducible** and **transparent**.

- Collaborating and controlling different versions of your work is far easier than Excel.


`@script`



---
## What to expect from this training

```yaml
type: "FullSlide"
key: "58c099f284"
```

`@part1`
- This training aims to provide basic knowledge the perform data manipulations using R. 

- By the end of the training, you should be able to wright R codes to perform different operations in a dataset, including: filtering, selecting, adding new information, reshaping, among others.


`@script`



---
## Let's do some practice!

```yaml
type: "FinalSlide"
key: "0aeb838079"
```

`@script`


